---
layout: post
title: 04-06-2024
---
# Commands used in the shell
- **l**s-To list the directories
- **cd**- current working directory
- **pwd**-present working directory
- **ls-a**-To see the file permissions
- **touch**-command to make new file
- **pipe commannd**-The pipe command in Unix-like operating systems, represented by the | symbol, is used to pass the output of one command as input to another command. This allows you to chain multiple commands together to perform complex tasks in a streamlined manner

---
# **Shell-Scripting**
- A shell can also take commands as input from file, we can write these commands in a file and can execute them in shell to avoid this repetitive work. These files are called Shell Scripts
- Most shells have their own scripting language with variables, control flow and its own syntax. What makes shell scripting different from other scripting programming languages is that it is optimized for performing shell-related tasks.
- **To assign varibles in bash**- we can use the following syntax
{% Name=Ayushi %}
{% echo "$Name" %}
{% #prints Ayushi %}
{% echo '$Name' %}
{%  #prints $Name %}

- Like  most programming languages, bash supports control flow techniques including if, case, while and for. Similarly, bash has functions that take arguments and can operate with them. Here is an example of a function that creates a directory and cds into it

-**variables in shell scripting**- we declare variables in script
-for example-script to show how to use variables
- age=27
- name=Ayushi
- echo "my name is $name and my age is $age"
- #output will be my name is Ayushi and my age is 27
- **we can also store output of a command in variable**-for example
- HOSTNAME=$(hostname)
- echo "my hostname is $HOSTNAME"
- #output will be "my hostname is redhat"

- Now example of shell script to do any arithmetic operations
- #!/bin/bash
- x=10
- y=2
- let mul=$x*$y
- echo "$mul"
- output will be 20

- **Like other programming languuages bash also uses control flow techniques including if,for ,case ,while**
- Example of using conditonal statement if in shell-scripting

- #!/bin/bash
- read -p "enter your marks:" marks
- if[[ $marks -gt 40 ]]
- then
-      echo"you are pass"
- else
-      echo "you are not pass"
- fi


- **Other example os shell scripting using for loop**
1. #!/bin/bash
2. for i in {1.2.3...10}
3. do
4.    echo "number is $i"
5.    if(i==6)
6.    then
7.         continue
8.    fi
9.       echo"number is $i" 
10. done


## Shell Tools
- Shell tools help us to find how to use commands
- There are certain tools like man , find,grep ,locate which help us to find command ,files,or ant paricular text 
- **Man**- man command in Linux is used to display the user manual of any command that we can run on the    terminal. It provides a detailed view of the command which includes NAME, SYNOPSIS, DESCRIPTION, OPTIONS, EXIT STATUS, RETURN VALUES, ERRORS, FILES, VERSIONS ETC.
- man -f [COMMAND NAME] - give one line description of command
- **Find**- Find is a great shell tool for finding files in linux. we can also use find command with some special flags to search a particular pattern.Example: find /path/to/search -type f -name "*.txt"
- **grep** -The grep command in Unix/Linux is a powerful tool used for searching and manipulating text patterns within files. we can also use it with many flags-
1. -c - This prints only a count of the lines that match a pattern
2. -i - Ignores, case for matching
3.  -v - This prints out all the lines that do not matches the pattern
4. -l - Displays list of a filenames only.