---
layout: post
title: 05-06-2024
---
#       GIT- Version Control System
-  A version control system is a software that tracks changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. It also allows you to work together with other programmers.
- The version control system help a team to manage changes in a source code ,developers can compare earlier versions of the code with an older version to fix the mistakes.

## The main  features of git  are-
- Git is a version control system.
- Git helps you keep track of code changes.
- Git is used to collaborate on code.

# GIT DATA MODEL
- Git has a well-thought-out model that enables all the nice features of version control, like maintaining history, supporting branches, and enabling collaboration.

- Git models the history of a collection of files and folders within some top-level directory as a series of snapshots.
- In Git terminology, a file is called a “blob”,a directory is called a “tree”, and it maps names to blobs or trees (so directories can contain other directories).
 
  **GIT REPOSITORIES**
  - A Git repository is a central storage location for managing and tracking changes in files and directories.
   
  **GIT STAGGING ENVIRONMENT**
  - One of the core functions of Git is the concepts of the Staging Environment, and the Commit.Staged files are files that are ready to be committed to the repository you are working on.



# GIT COMMANDLINE INTERFACE
**Basic Commands**
- The Git command line interface (  ) allows you to work with a local or remote Git repository.
- git  help <command>: get help for a git command
- git init: creates a new git repo, with data stored in the .git directory
- git status: tells you what’s going on
- git add <filename>: adds files to staging area
- git commit -m : creates a new commit and write a good commit message
- git log: shows  history
- git log --all --graph --decorate: visualizes history as a DAG
- git diff <filename>: show changes you made relative to the staging area
- git diff <revision> <filename>: shows differences in a file between snapshots

# GIT BRANCHING AND MERGING 

- git branch: shows branches
- git branch <name>: creates a branch
- git checkout -b <name>: creates a branch and switches to it
- git merge <branch name>: merges into current branch
- git mergetool --tool-help: to see the list of merge tools we can use ,there are many merging tools like vimdiff ,opendiff,meld and many more to resolve merge conflict

# GIT LOG AND GIT CONFIG COMMANDS
- git log: to see changes ,information of user and message of commits
- git log --author : to know how has made the recent changes
- git log --before=date: to know logs of particular date
- git log -p -1 : if i have to see only last commit
- git log --stat : To see the summary of a changes
- git log --pretty=oneline : To see the information of commits in one line
- git log --pretty=format:"%h -%an , %ar:%s" - To see the specific information of a commit
- git config --global user.name/email "name/email": to authenticate the user by name or email
- git config --list : to know the list of users
- git show <commitid>: <path of file>- To go on a specific version of commit
{% highlight ruby %}
 git checkout <commitid> --(*/filename): If in my local i need all the old version files
 git checkout <latestbranch> --* : if now i have to come on latest 
{% endhighlight %}
 
# GIT RESTORE COMMAND
{% highlight ruby %}
 Case 1.If by mistake anyone add or delete any text in file and I need the old version of file  git restore <filename>
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight ruby %}
  case 2.If the file is in stagging area and if any mistake has been done then,
  git restore --staged <filename>
  git restore .
{% endhighlight %}

# GIT RESET COMMAND
- IF we want to come on our previous commit to make any changes then it can be done by git reset commmand
{% highlight ruby %}
  git reset --soft HEAD^(To uncommit & keep the changes)
  git reset --hard HEAD^(To uncommit & discard the changes)
{% endhighlight %}

# GIT REBASE COMMAND
- 





