---
layout: post
title: 03-06-2024
---
- WHAT IS SHELL
- A shell is a special user program that provides an interface for the user to use operating system services. Shell accepts human-readable commands from users and converts them into something which the kernel can understand. It is a command language interpreter that executes commands read from input devices such as keyboards or from files. The shell gets started when the user logs in or starts the terminal.
- BOURNE AGAIN SHELL
- Bourne again shell is a widely used shell.It is the default shell in many linux distribution
---
**04-06-2024**
---
# Commands used in the shell
- **l**s-To list the directories
- **cd**- current working directory
- **pwd**-present working directory
- **ls-a**-To see the file permissions
- **touch**-command to make new file
- **pipe commannd**-The pipe command in Unix-like operating systems, represented by the | symbol, is used to pass the output of one command as input to another command. This allows you to chain multiple commands together to perform complex tasks in a streamlined manner
**sysf**
- The sysfs filesystem is an in-memory virtual filesystem that provides a view of the kernal object hierarchy. It enables users to view the device topology of their system as a simple filesystem.the sysfs file system mounted under /sys. sysfs. For example, the brightness of your laptop’s screen is exposed through a file called brightness under /sys/class/backlight
---
# **Shell-Scripting**
- A shell can also take commands as input from file, we can write these commands in a file and can execute them in shell to avoid this repetitive work. These files are called Shell Scripts
- Most shells have their own scripting language with variables, control flow and its own syntax. What makes shell scripting different from other scripting programming languages is that it is optimized for performing shell-related tasks.
- **To assign varibles in bash**- we can use the following syntax
- Name=Ayushi
echo "$Name"
# prints Ayushi
echo '$Name'
# prints $Name
  




